---
title: Monthly Update August 1998 
layout: post
author: Tom N. Paulsen
---



 **August 1**Bill Onorato and John Shriver sketched 'version 1\.0' of the trolley route from the East side of Gifford City (old city loop) to the Gifford City Station (old Tuckerton Station) and the west side turning loop (new). The track is to become double track in front of the Gifford City station, and then single track once it goes down to the car barn.  Alvar completely finished the work with track feeders under the layout, and did a map that shows the locations and connections of all the terminal strips that have been installed for phase 1\. Jeff finished all the work on creating new block gaps and closing old block gaps so that the rail agrees with the new plans. Then he continued the work on the 14ga track feeders from the terminal strips to the power distribution panels.  Alvar also worked on the case for the Building 20 time capsule. Pictures of the car and the whole setup will be available soon in the [TMRC Building 20]({{ site.baseurl }}/old/progress/reports/1998/8/../../../../bldg20.html)  page. **August 8**Jeff Birkner (after also spending Friday at TMRC) finished re\-wiring the 'Big Loop' to System 2\. This means that **System 2 is, once again, operating the layout!**  Bill Onorato continued his work on the building at the East end of Gifford City. Andy Miller finished painting the new 'B' unit for the Aaron Burr, which now has new traction power!  Jeff and Alvar then continued the work on the tower wall. The tower now has about 2/3 of its walls complete. **August 11**System2 (previously referred to as "The System") ran three trains simultaneously on cabs 1, 2, and 3 this evening. This is the first time that this has been done since the Building 20 layout was decomisioned in April 1997\.  All present participated in some minor debugging of rolling stock and track work. There was also some discussion of a letter from our PC board manufacturer requesting additional information. **August 25**In preparation for Activities Midway, Jeff worked on the crossing flasher display and John P worked on the switching layout. John M continued his work on roundhouse restoration.   