---
title: Monthly Update May 1998 
layout: post
author: Tom N. Paulsen
---



 **May 5**Ishak and John M continued work on converting the P\-yard switches to Tortoise machines. Andy Miller did some more work on the new P\-yard platforms. Jeff Birkner did some electrical work, and John P worked on the "newspaper plant" siding. **May 12**John M installed another Tortoise switch machine in P\-yard and John P worked on some new concepts in resistive wheelsets. Ben FrantzDale stopped by for a five minute visit to supervise our work. **May 26**John M constructed an additional area of plywood behind the roundhouse so that the roundhouse stalls that were shortened to fit into the old clubroom can now be extended to full length. This will be a long term project, as the floor has to be extended, some new rear walls constructed, interior roof trusses extended, and new rear\-section roofing installed.  Andy worked on bridge supports for a North Shore project and did additional work on our P\-yard platforms.  John P constucted, in rough form, a new bridge over the main line. This bridge is the second of two bridges across the main line that connect the Gifford City trolley loop area with other sections of the city located in imaginary space where the viewers are standing. It is immediately adjacent to the produce terminal building that John has been mocking up over the past few weeks.  Alvar led a discussion amongst all present concerning the next steps in tower construction. The current tower consists of a 6 foot diameter circular floor located about five feet in the air and surrounded by two loops of track. It is anticipated that a drum\-like structure roughly 18 inches greater in diameter will surround most of the tower enclosing the loops and also forming the exterior of the area where operators sit. Various methods of attaching this structure to the present structure were discussed, as were details about the countertop upon which operators will place their M\-boards and Coca\-cola cans. The new design is quite a bit different than that discussed by Joe Onorato on 14 April.   