---
title: Monthly Update November 1999 
layout: post
author: Tom N. Paulsen
---



 **November 2**Ed Drozd did more work on the parking area around the Coca\-Bubblie plant and built a new base for the building. James Knight refilled the Coke machine, which is dispensing at a record rate, and did other Treasurer\-type things, like paying Andy Miller for two hotel kits that he is combining into the 11\-story Bassex Hotel. Andy started the assembly this evening. John McNamara started working on the floor of the machine shop / boiler room of the roundhouse. John Purbrick worked on the newspaper building that is next to his produce warehouse and revised the walk\-around throttle so that the speed control knob is more firmly mounted. Alvar Saenz\-Otero started detailing the second side of his Green Building model. **November 6**Progress continues! Alvar finished the second side of the green building! The next step is the front... uhhhhh. Bill continued to work on the vegetable oil facility. John McNamara continued construction of the boiler room and/or workshop (yet TBD) on the back of the round house. He installed the floor section today, and finished the junction sections between the back wall and the little room. Ed extended the street from the Coca Bubblie factory all the way to the next building (we've better get a name for this one soon :\-). Andy continued to work on the new hotel building, a kitbashed kit that combines two of the Bachman Spectrum models in order to make a very impressive structure! Stephano and Elma (his wife) weathered the cars they finished last week, and began other projects. Elma helped Andy in getting the railings for Paulson Blvd. ready. Talking about railings: Alvar and Andy worked on a scanned image of a brass railing in order to make laser transparencies out of them, and use them for the stairs down to the Gifford City Station platforms. **November 9**Ed Drozd did yet more work on the parking area around the Coca\-Bubblie plant and built a nifty ladder between the main roof of the building and the taller part that supports the clock. Andy Miller worked on the ornate first floor of the Hotel Bassex. John McNamara started working on the interior walls of the office area of the roundhouse. John Purbrick installed windows on some of the club locomotives. **November 20**John Purbrick continued some projects and began other new ones: he continued to work on the area around the produce terminal; started to work on one of the many signals into Gifford City, the one into 105th street; then he worked on the walls all the way to the west of Gifford City station, across the river, and down under the turntable. Meanwhile Ed worked on many interior details of the Coca Bubblie plant: interior wall divisions, floors, columns, and even stairs! Bill continued to work on the vegetable oil facility. Alvar worked on the Green building detail parts, to have everything ready for painting (some day :\-); he then put together the last building of the front of Gifford City which was still glued together with tape. Jeff helped us with the Coke Machine, including replacing several 'product out' lights.   