---
title: Monthly Update December 2001 
layout: post
author: Tom N. Paulsen
---



 **December 12**Ed Drozd tested three new Club locomotives. These are KATO units and run very, very well. The only complaint is that their headlights (white LEDs) are very bluish. John Shriver wired half of the trolley carbarn ladder to a controller card. John Purbrick installed a new low voltage, high amperage power supply that the Club recently purchased. This will be used to power our increasing amount of five volt logic, especially the switch controller cards. Andy Miller worked on a steam loco that he brought in, and Ken Terrell painted some more of his many, many (30\) long distance bi\-level coaches. Malcolm Laughlin gathered kits to work on during his upcoming absence. Alvar Saenz\-Otero performed various clerical tasks, receiving an Office Depot shipment and preparing labels and coin wrappers for future use. John McNamara and some of the others discussed a recent Tom O'Reilly idea for a temporary staging area beyond Berkmannville. It will be constructed from the old F\-yard classication track unit salvaged from Building 20\. **December 19**John Purbrick continued his work wiring Berkmannville. The Berkmannville area was recently expanded with the addition of a small module built during our later years in Building 20\. This evening, Tom O'Reilly continued the construction that he and Alvar started last week, which is to further extend the Berkmanville area by adding the former F\-Yard ladder as a temporary staging facility until the "third lobe" of the layout is constructed. John McNamara loaded the Coke machine. Ken Terrell did some painting. Claude Brown, and later Joe Onorato, visited. The Cub Scout troop that was expected at 7:15 never showed up.   