---
title: Monthly Update August 2001 
layout: post
author: Tom N. Paulsen
---



 **August 1**Andy Miller worked on building foundations in the Gifford City area. This was done in preparation for the installation of sidewalks and subsequent installation of trolley poles. Andy and Alvar then discussed the placement of a couple of the buildings and decided to change one, requiring the removal of foundations already nailed and glued in place....  At the opposite end of Gifford City, John Shriver worked toward completion of the car barn ladder tracks. John McNamara did some minor work on the interior of the roundhouse.  In the BK area, Malcolm Laughlin and Roger Neumann temporarily mounted the pre\-built layout section that will go at the eastern end of Berkmannville. Alvar discussed with others the mounting of a 'work surface' under said section.  James Knight, Branden Gunn, Roger Neumann, and Alvar worked on various computer\-related projects. After some debuggind, James and Alvar made the **first Systme3 advance in S\-Yard!**  Jeff Birkner dropped by briefly, as did Ken Terrell. **August 8**A very quiet and very warm night. John Shriver continued his work on the carbarn ladder tracks. Malcolm Laughlin worked on some Streamline car kits of his. He and John McNamara briefly discussed Alvar's self\-clearing workbench idea, the exact height of which depends on some inputs from Bill Onorato. John M also refilled the Coke machine, which had been completely sold out to thristy victims of the current heat wave. John S. and John M. agreed that the Club's current A/C has a capacity of only about 100 mK (milliKotoks). James worked on new bootloaders for the PIC processors which run the System3 blockcards. Alvar installed 'OrCad' in the TMRC PC so that we can star to work on the schematics and layout of the blockcards. **August 15**John Shriver continued his work on the carbarn ladder tracks and now has two tracks completed into the car barn. John Purbrick and Malcolm Laughlin showed off the layout to a friend of Malcolm's and discussed various model and prototype railroading issues. Ben FrantzDale visited and installed grass behind the roundhouse after consultation with John McNamara and Ed Drozd. Alvar Saenz\-Otero made CAD drawings of the System3 block card schematics while James Knight worked on various other System3 issues. Jeff Birkner visited briefly.   