---
title: Monthly Update March 2002 
layout: post
author: Tom N. Paulsen
---



 **March 6**John Shriver began the construction of tracks that will branch off the downtown Gifford City trolley loop and proceed toward the viewer over the "100th Street" bridge. These tracks will not be operational, but merely scenic. The base material of the bridge approach is Masonite, so John added (via glue and brads) crosswise strips of thin copper to which he will solder the rails. James Knight, Tom O'Reilly, and Roger Neumann worked on System3\. Looking over their shoulders, one sees some really nifty graphic interfaces that display block and switch status plus some nice representations of control cabs. Andy Miller and Malcolm Laughlin discussed the design of the proposed new freight yard, and Malcolm diagrammed the entrance using 3rdPlanIt. Andy also began contemplation of the last unfinished bridge over the tracks near Gifford City and refilled the Coke Machine, which was literally overflowing with money. John McNamara continued work on his TNP superliner cars, and John Purbrick did additional wiring work in Berkmannville. **March 27**John Shriver continued the construction of tracks that will branch off the downtown Gifford City trolley loop and proceed toward the viewer over the "100th Street" bridge. Tom O'Reilly worked on System3 display programs, while John Purbrick did wiring work on the Berkmannville display/control panel that Malcolm Laughlin built. John has constructed a small PIC processor device that controls this panel and spent the evening wiring the processor device to the LEDs and keypad on the panel. John McNamara started rebuilding the Digital Widgets factory (low building) by removing the front wall surface from the undulating plastic backing currently used and cutting a piece of plexiglass that will provide a new mounting surface. Roger Neumann refilled the Coke machine and performed some experiments with Linux. John P, John M, and Roger studied some of the construction problems related to the helixes (helices?). There are substantial questions about how high the helixes will be going, how to support them, and how to construct (and scenic) the structure that surrounds them. If Bill Onorato is in on Saturday, we will have a discussion with him.   