---
title: Monthly Update July 2003 
layout: post
author: Tom N. Paulsen
---



 **July 5**Today I (James Knight) arrived late today so I'm not sure what happened before 10pm. When I got here, Malcolm Laughlin was working on attaching plywood for the new river right before the helix to staging yard, Tom O'Reilly was constructing a switch and laying track, and John Purbrick was doing his best to make a siding look utterly abandoned and neglected for the past 30 years. I decided (finally) get back to doing some track wiring, and finished two P\-yard tracks that have been sitting unwired for the past year. I also started updating the documentation on the track wiring, since some of it is out of date with respect to what's currently there.  *James Knight***July 16**Last Saturday, Alvar (almost single\-handedly) finished construction of the F\-yard helix of two\-and\-a\-half loops so that it is now complete from the lower level at 35 inches, up to the F\-yard level at 45 inches. Hooray! This helix isn't actually quite a helix, as it is designed so that much of the track is exposed and can be sceniced. There was one minor problem with the placement which required a bit of rework today, but now it is really done. F\-yard plywood is installed as well, leaving only the plywood on the other side of F\-yard to complete. The plan is to finish laying the main\-line all the way up the helix and through f\-yard to extend a "great circle" all the way around the complete layout by the time freshmen arrive this fall.  Over a couple of evenings Alan Kotok stuffed a new block card with components (the first of 3 we'll need for the part of track we're laying right now), with some help from John Shriver.  *James Knight***July 23**Alvar and Malcolm discussed the plans for finishing off the plywood of F\-yard (the construction of which is to occur on Saturday), while John Purbrick worked further on constructed some more switches around the back of the F\-yard helix. James Knight did various updates to the TMRC website (doesn't this progress page look much nicer than before?), and there is now a new section, written by John McNamara describing the [history of the club]({{ site.baseurl }}/old/progress/reports/2003/7/../../../../history/index.html). Alvar also started working out a state diagram of how to run the 7\-end demo track that we will use for the Freshman Midway this fall. The goal is to have it run 2 engines through random routes continually, so that there's always something moving to attract attention. *James Knight* **July 26**Today was quite destructive. The temporary upper\-loop around the control tower (which has been there 5 years) was torn apart by James Knight and Thaddeus Stefanov\-Wagner. As planned Alvar Saenz\-Otero with help from James constructed the next piece connecting F\-yard to the Gifford City area. Alvar also installed supports under other parts of the recently installed plywood that hadn't been properly supported yet.    On Monday John Purbrick installed a new cutoff from S\-yard into the helix leading to Berkmanville, thus making two "Great Circles" around the layout possible once we complete the main\-line through F\-yard.    