---
title: Monthly Update February 2006 
layout: post
author: Tom N. Paulsen
---



 **February 1** There's a new signal in Middle Heights. The background to this picture would have been clubroom clutter, but one of the members just bought this big sheet of "rock face" at the Springfield show.    Update: now 2 high signals and a dwarf! And abundant clubroom clutter. We'll be doing something about that cardboard tunnel portal Real Soon Now.     **February 4** The cardboard strips and plaster cloth that form the shell of the hillside near the Green River have been largely completed. The shell seen in the picture will be covered with plaster and detailed. Much of the area around the tunnel opening will be detailed to look like a rock cut. John McNamara is now debating how to deal with a culvert that will run along the back side of the bridge.   **February 11** Adam Madlinger has been making rocks. Specifically, rocks on the hillside above the river seen. A variety of techniques were used to make the rocks seen here, which have been attached to the cardboard and plaster shell made by John McNamara. Some preliminary work was also done on coloring the rocks.   **February 15** Seeing all the work going John McNamara and Adam Madlinger have been doing on the far side of the hill had spurred John Purbrick into feverish action in Middle Heights. The two tunnel portals have now been roughed in in preparation for building the hillside. A few new signal heads have also sprouted in the area. John also played with some old rubber molding compound, in hopes of using it to duplicate out or production brick paper, but found that the pink half of the two part compound had not aged gracefully. The reults were semi\-successful.   **February 18** Bill showed up and continued work on the rock cut in the corner behind the pillar. Much of the rocks seen in the picture were salvaged from the old layout, through years of accumulated TMRC dust has made it necessary to clean and restain the rocks. Some new rock work was also needed to fit the new location. Bill says he is making good progress and the rocks may get finished. John Purbrick continued to work in Middle Heights.   **February 24**A large number of artsy people were in the building for a party tonight, and got a tour of the club room from Tom, who happened to be the room on an off night. Many were so bold as to call the layout art.     