---
title: Monthly Update March 2007 
layout: post
author: Tom N. Paulsen
---



 **March 10** Tom finished installing the last of the plastic fence that surrounds the layout. These removable panels serve to keep trains on the layout in the event of especially bad derailments and more importantly, to help keep small hands off the trains during open houses. The final panels were installed in front of the freight yard, which is an are where we have experienced many derailments due to problems with 0\-5\-0 switchers in recent open houses. Adam worked on more of the rocks in the river/mountain area.  **March 17**David Lambeth returned for a brief visit and worked on the newer Digital Widgets building next to the tower that he installed during his last brief visit. Tom installed benchwork for new sidings in Berkmannville. Hugh quietly went about something or another. Adam did some rock work. The club was visited by a small group of alumni.   **March 21**  John Shriver worked on the trolley wire, which is nearing completion. John McNamara worked on rocks in the river area. And, rounding out the John Trifecta, John Purbrick worked on scenery in Middle Heights and updating the CAD drawing of the track plan for eventual inclusion on our web page. Tom contemplated track layout in Berkmannville and discussed updates to the web page with John McNamara.   **March 24**Quentin and Tom worked to update the web page, fixing a variety of broken links and adding a picture gallery function that James didn't start working on a couple of years ago and updating some specific pages, including the links page. John McNamara's capacity for nitpicking came in handy, as he identified many problem areas and problem english that would otherwise be hard to find. The biggest update is that pictures in the older progress reports will now show up properly.  **March 28**Tom and John McNamara worked on updates to the web page. John Purbrick showed, did some scenery work in Berkmanville, and worked on a track diagram. James helped a bit on the web page. His main contribution was to suggest that the web based store be replaced with something much simpler.**March 31**Tom made numerous revisions to the web page, including a whole new page about the [TNP]({{ site.baseurl }}/old/progress/reports/2007/3/../../../../TNP/index.html) and a page to make some older progress reports and picture galleries available [again]({{ site.baseurl }}/old/progress/reports/2007/3/../../../oldprogress.html). These have been hard to find since we changed the format of the progress reports a few years ago. Bill brought in a bridge for the new sidings in Bermannville. JP did some scenery work and had a filet 'o fish sandwich. Hugh appeared and disappeared in a very quiet manner. A number of children, young and old, who were attending an event at MITERS stopped by when that ended, as did a couple of recent students, and a man and his son visiting from Tokyo.   